XP-229 Getting Started guide (#8)
xainag/xain-sdk: README.md

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/xainag/xain-sdk?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/xainag/xain-sdk/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/xain-sdk/badge/?version=latest&style=flat-square)](https://docs.xain.io/projects/xain-sdk/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/xainag.png)](https://gitter.im/xainag)

# XAIN SDK

> # Overview

Reviewer: I think this should be a level 2 heading => `## Overview`

The XAIN project is building a GDPR-compliance layer for machine learning. 

> The approach relies on federated machine learning (FedML) as an enabling technology 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The approach relies on federated learning (FL) as an enabling technology 
```
Use of "FedML" now outlawed as of the latest glossary document!

that removes compliance-related adoption barriers of AI applications used in production.

The main components:

- Coordinator -- The central server in federated learning which orchestrates the FL process.
- SDK -- The library which allows participants to interact with XAIN Platform.

The source code in this project implements the XAIN SDK to provide your local application a way 
to communicate with the XAIN Coordinator.

> # Getting started

Reviewer: I think this should be a level 2 heading => ## Overview

### Run XAIN Coordinator

There are two options how to run XAIN Coordinator to perform federated learning on locally pretrained models: 

* Go to the main page of the project and request a demo [XAIN Platform](https://www.xain.io/federated-learning-platform)
* Self-hosted solution, go to [XAIN FL Project](https://github.com/xainag/xain-fl) for more details

### Integrate XAIN SDK into your project

#### 1. Install XAIN SDK

To install the XAIN SDK package on your machine, simply run in your terminal:

```bash
pip install xain-sdk
```

#### 2. Register your application and the device to participate in the aggregation

> Now you have to register the nodes that you wish to participate in the federated learning network. To do so, just send the registration request to the XAIN Coordinator:

Reviewer: Instead of `nodes` I would suggest to to use the word `participant`

Reviewer 2: Disagree in this particular context. Doesn't make much sense (nor does it sound correct) to say

> Now you have to register the **participants** that you wish to **participate**

participant.py

```python
from typing import Dict, List, Tuple
import numpy as np
from tensorflow.data import Dataset
from tensorflow.keras import Model
from xain_sdk.sdk.participant import Participant

class MyParticipant(Participant):
    def __init__(self):

        super(MyParticipant, self).__init__()

        # define or load a model to be trained
        self.model: Model = ...

        # define or load data to be trained on
        self.trainset: Dataset = ...
        self.valset: Dataset = ...
        self.testset: Dataset = ...

    def train_round(
        self, weights: List[np.ndarray], epochs: int, epoch_base: int
    ) -> Tuple[List[np.ndarray], Dict[str, List[np.ndarray]]]:

        # load weights into the model
        self.model.set_weights(weights)

        # train the model for the specified number of epochs
        self.model.fit(x=self.trainset, epochs=epochs, verbose=2, shuffle=False)

        # return the updated weights
        return self.model.get_weights(), {}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we please add a link to our [example](https://docs.xain.io/projects/xain-sdk/en/latest/examples/tensorflow_keras.html) so that a reader can see how an implementation can look like.

Reviewer 4: i would say so as well, some details of the example changed again which in the current case need to be reflected in this readme too. so best would probably to just link to the example, and as soon as we have referencing in place, a preview or full embedding of the examples can be referenced in this readme,

start.py

```python
# Create a new participant
p = MyParticipant()

> start_participant(p, "your_host:your_port")

Reviewer 5: Where do we get the class`MyParticipant` and the function `start_participant` from? Probably, self-explanatory for the class, but for `start_participant` we should add the import statement in order to make sure, that the function doesn't have to be created on the client-side.

Reviewer 3: I have renamed it to `start_participant` in #9.
the import statement is `from xain_sdk.grpc.participant import start_participant`

Reviewer 5: Thanks @Robert-Steiner for renaming and @atymoshchuk for adding the import. I will mark it as resolved.

```

Now you have registered a participant. Simply repeat this step for all the participants you wish to register.

The XAIN Coordinator will take care of the rest: 
- The aggregation of your locally pretrained models.
- Triggering new training rounds for the selected participants and aggregating these models.

> - Upcoming feature: Pushing the new global model back to all your participants.

Author: It is planned as a part of Xain platform solution. Should I remove it?

> - Upcoming feature: Pushing the new global model back to all your participants.

Reviewer 5: Ok, I know what you mean. However, one can use the `xain-fl` and `xain-sdk` to push the global model back to all the participants. We can mention here, that it is planned to host the coordinator, that pushes then the global model back.

> - Upcoming feature: Pushing the new global model back to all your participants.

Author: Removed this line for now

> #### Upcoming feature: Performance metrics

Reviewer 4: i would change the wording for `performance metrics`, metrics in this context already mean performance score. if we want to point specifically at the model instead of for example at the system, we can name it e.g. `model metrics`.

or current round.
- SDK -- The library which allows Participants or Client to interact with the XAIN Platform.

The source code in this project implements the XAIN SDK to provide your local application a way 
to communicate with the XAIN Coordinator.

## Getting started

### Run XAIN Coordinator

There are two options how to run XAIN Coordinator to perform federated learning on locally pretrained models: 

* Go to the main page of the project and request a demo [XAIN Platform](https://www.xain.io/federated-learning-platform)
* Self-hosted solution, go to [XAIN FL Project](https://github.com/xainag/xain-fl) for more details

### Integrate XAIN SDK into your project

#### 1. Install XAIN SDK

To install the XAIN SDK package on your machine, simply run in your terminal:

```bash
pip install xain-sdk
```

#### 2. Register your application and the device to participate in the aggregation

Now you have to register your Participants to participate in the federated learning rounds. To do so, 
just send the registration request to the XAIN Coordinator:

participant.py

```python
from typing import Dict, List, Tuple
from numpy import ndarray

> from xain_sdk.xain_sdk.participant import Participant

Reviewer 3: it should be `xain_sdk.participant `

class MyParticipant(Participant):
    def __init__(self):

        super(MyParticipant, self).__init__()

        # define or load a model to be trained
        ...

        # define or load data to be trained on
        ...

    def train_round(
        self, weights: List[ndarray], epochs: int, epoch_base: int
    ) -> Tuple[List[ndarray], int, Dict[str, List[ndarray]]]:

        # load weights into the model
        ...

        # train the model for the specified number of epochs
        ...

        # return the updated weights
        ...
```

start.py

```python

> from xain_sdk.xain_sdk.participant_state_machine import start_participant

Reviewer 3: Same here

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/xainag/xain-sdk?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/xainag/xain-sdk/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/xain-sdk/badge/?version=latest&style=flat-square)](https://xain-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/xainag.png)](https://gitter.im/xainag)

# XAIN SDK

## Overview

The XAIN project is building a GDPR-compliance layer for machine learning. The approach relies on Federated Learning 

> as enabling technology that allows to use in production AI application that are privacy compliant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as enabling technology that allows production AI applications to be fully privacy compliant.
```
grammatical fix

Author: We need to have the same fix in xain-fl repo, otherwise it's inconsistent

Federated Learning also enables different use-cases that are not strictly privacy related such as connecting data 
lakes, reaching higher model performance in unbalanced datasets and utilising AI models on the edge.

The main components:

> - Coordinator -- the entity that manages all aspects of the execution of rounds for federated learning. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Coordinator -- the entity that manages all aspects of the execution of rounds for Federated Learning. 
```
consistency with capitalisation

> This includes, the registration of clients, the selection of clients that participate in a given round, the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This includes the registration of clients, the selection of clients that participate in a given round, the 
```

> determination whether sufficiently many clients have sent updated local models, the computation of an aggregated 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
determination of whether sufficiently many clients have sent updated local models, the computation of an aggregated 
```

global model, and the sending of the latter model to storage or other entities.
- Client or Participant -- an entity that is the originator of a local dataset that can be selected for local 

> training in the federated learning. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
training in the Federated Learning. 
```

- Selected Participant -- a Client or Participant that has been selected by the Coordinator to participate in the next 
or current round.
- SDK -- The library which allows Participants or Client to interact with the XAIN Platform.

The source code in this project implements the XAIN SDK to provide your local application a way 
to communicate with the XAIN Coordinator.

## Getting started

### Run XAIN Coordinator

> There are two options how to run XAIN Coordinator to perform federated learning on locally pretrained models: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two options to run XAIN Coordinator to perform Federated Learning on locally pretrained models: 
```

* Go to the main page of the project and request a demo [XAIN Platform](https://www.xain.io/federated-learning-platform)
* Self-hosted solution, go to [XAIN FL Project](https://github.com/xainag/xain-fl) for more details

### Integrate XAIN SDK into your project

#### 1. Install XAIN SDK

To install the XAIN SDK package on your machine, simply run in your terminal:

```bash
pip install xain-sdk
```

#### 2. Register your application and the device to participate in the aggregation

> Now you have to register your Participants to participate in the federated learning rounds. To do so, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you have to register your Participants to participate in the Federated Learning rounds. To do so, 
```

        ...
        
        metrics = {
            "some_metric_1": [],
            "some_metric_2": [],
            ...
            "some_metric_n": [],
        }

        # return the updated weights
        return weights, number_train_samples, metrics
```

start.py

```python
from xain_sdk.participant_state_machine import start_participant

# Import MyParticipant from your participant.py file 
from participant import MyParticipant

# Create a new participant
p = MyParticipant()

"""
    Register your new participant to interact with XAIN Coordinator (hosted at XAIN Platform or self-hosted solution).
    Function start_participant requires two arguments:
    - your new participant to register to interact with Coordinator,
    - the URL of the Coordinator to connect to. 
""" 
start_participant(p, "your_host:your_port")
```

Now you have registered a participant. Simply repeat this step for all the participants you wish to register.

The XAIN Coordinator will take care of the rest: 
- The aggregation of your locally pretrained models.
- Triggering new training rounds for the selected participants and aggregating these models.

#### Upcoming feature: Model metrics

> Upcoming feature, which would be available as [XAIN Platform solution](https://www.xain.io/federated-learning-platform)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upcoming feature, which will be available as [XAIN Platform solution](https://www.xain.io/federated-learning-platform)
```

If you would like to compare the performance of aggregated models, please send the specific metrics of your use 
case that you wish to monitor to XAIN's Coordinator. This will then be reflected in the web interface 
under the `Project Management` tab. In order to send your metrics to XAIN's Coordinator, you will need to update the `train_round()` method accordingly.

## Example

> Please see the example how to integrate SDK into your Participant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please see the following example for how to integrate the SDK into your Participant.
```

[Keras/Tensorflow example for the SDK Participant implementation](https://xain-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/tensorflow_keras.html)

## Getting help

> If you get stuck, don't worry we are here to help. You can find more information here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you get stuck, don't worry, we are here to help. You can find more information here:
```
